Machine learning has revolutionized the way businesses operate and make decisions. For today's leading companies like Facebook, Google, and Uber, ML is key.

 

In this lesson, you'll dive deeper into machine learning models and approaches.

Select the diagram that best represents the relationships between the different areas in AI


Translate course
In machine learning, a model is a computer program that can make predictions or decisions.

Machine learning models learn from…

rules
data

Training is the process of making a model learn from data so it can make better predictions and decisions. Different models are trained for different tasks. 

For a model to be ready to use, it first needs to be…

intelligent
trained

A machine learning model that has learned from data has gone through a process called…

initiation
inactivity
training

There are two approaches to Machine Learning: supervised learning and unsupervised learning.

 

Interact with the diagram to explore them


Supervised learning is frequently used to make predictions or decisions. Supervised learning takes in…

unlabeled data
labeled data

Unsupervised learning tries to discover patterns and relationships within…

labeled data
unlabeled data

A machine learning model that has been trained with loads of examples of fraudulent and legitimate card transactions to predict fraud is…

unsupervised learning
supervised learning


A business using unlabelled data to train a machine learning model to group their customers based on age, income and buying behavior is an example of…

supervised learning
unsupervised learning

The supervised learning approach usually requires human involvement to…

find patterns in unlabelled data
label the training data

Inspired by the way the human brain processes information, a network of artificial neurons is able to learn from data.

 

Deep learning is a type of machine learning model with multiple layers of neural networks


Translate course
Deep learning models require very large amounts of training data and are very effective at tasks such as image recognition, natural language processing and making more accurate predictions.

Select the correct diagram



Translate course
A machine learning application that learns from past data to produce new content is…

generative
discriminative

Let's recap

Great work! You learned that:

 

⭐ supervised learning models are trained on labeled data

⭐ unsupervised learning models are trained on unlabeled data

⭐ deep learning uses a very large amount of data to learn more complex patterns

