Machine learning (ML) tools are enhancing decision-making and innovation in today's data-driven world.
 
This lesson, we'll take a look at these three main types of discriminative AI and how they're used in the real world.

Machine learning (ML) tools are enhancing decision-making and innovation in today's data-driven world.

This lesson, we'll take a look at these three main types of discriminative AI and how they're used in the real world.

Which is a type of which? Complete the labels on the diagram

img-component
A: 
B: 
C: 

Machine learning (ML) tools are created with different goals in mind.

Match the type of AI with its goal

Finding patterns and making predictions: 
Creating new content based on prompts: 

Regression models make numerical predictions based on labeled data. The model above is trained on past car mileage and usage data, to predict vehicle lifespan.

What's the predicted lifespan for a car that will be driven an average of 45 miles a day?

11 years
9 years

Regression models can be made more complex, using multiple features (properties) to make better predictions.

What are the car features used to predict lifespan in this example?

Only engine size
Car color
Engine size and miles per day

Regression models are trained using supervised learning.

This means they need…

mixed data
unlabelled data
labeled data

Which data would you provide to train a model to predict the lifespan of a car based on its engine size and average miles driven per day?

Table A
Table B

Classification models assign labels to things based on their features. Imagine you're organizing your clothes for either warm or cold weather.

What are the features you could use?

Engine size and miles per day
Fabric material and thickness

The output of a classification model is the prediction of a label. The example model classifies clothes as either Warm or Cold based on labeled data.

What are the labels in this example?

Fabric material and Thickness
Warm and Cold

Classification can use any number of labels. Let's say you're organizing your wardrobe for all four seasons.

Which would be the best set of labels to use?

Dress, Shirt, Hoodie, Jacket
Trendy and Not Trendy
Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring

Like regression, classification can also use multiple features to make better predictions.

Classification models take labeled data as input. This means they use…

unsupervised learning
supervised learning

Regression and classification both learn from labeled data, but they output different types of predictions.

Regression predictions are 
Classification predictions are 

Clustering models group unlabeled data based on the similarities they find. According to this movie recommendation model, which group of films would be recommended to viewers who liked Titanic?

A
B
C

Clustering models are unsupervised learning algorithms. This means they use…

labeled data
unlabeled data


Translate course
Which type of ML model would you use for forecasting the price of a house based on its size?

Classification
Clustering
Regression

Imagine you sell two vacation packages – one at a beach, one in a mountain resort. You have data on customers who've been to both.

Which type of ML could you use to assess new customer data and choose which vacation to sell them?

Regression
Clustering
Classification

A business using unlabelled data to train an ML model to group their customers based on age, income and buying behavior is an example of…

Regression
Clustering
Classification

Let's recap
Great work! You're well on your way to becoming an AI expert.

Now you know:

 

⭐ the differences between regression, classification, and clustering

⭐ some ways to use these ML models in the real world

⭐ how to choose the best type of ML model for a task