# 2. Conditional Compilation Directives

## The `#ifdef`, `#ifndef`, and `#undef` Directives

The `#ifdef`, `#ifndef`, and `#undef` directives operate on macros created with `#define`.

For example, there will be compilation problems if the same macro is defined twice, so you can check for this with an `#ifdef` directive. If you want to redefine a macro, you can first use `#undef`.

The program below demonstrates these directives:

```c
#include <stdio.h>

#define RATE 0.08
#ifndef TERM
  #define TERM 24
#endif

int main() {
  #ifdef RATE  /* this branch will be compiled */
    #undef RATE  
    printf("Redefining RATE\n");
    #define RATE 0.068
  #else  /* this branch will not be compiled */
    #define RATE 0.068
  #endif

  printf("%f  %d\n", RATE, TERM);

  return 0;
}
```

Because `RATE` is defined at the top, only the `#ifdef` clause will be compiled. The optional `#else` branch compiles when `#ifdef RATE` is false during preprocessing.

An `#endif` is required to close the block of code.

An `#elif` directive is like an `else if` and can be used to provide additional alternatives after `#else`.

## Conditional Compilation Directives

Conditional compilation of segments of code is controlled by a set of directives: `#if`, `#else`, `#elif`, and `#endif`.

```c
#include <stdio.h>

#define LEVEL 4

int main() {
  #if LEVEL > 6
    /* do something */
  #elif LEVEL > 5
    /* else if branch */
  #elif LEVEL > 4
    /* another else if */
  #else
    /* last option here */
  #endif

  return 0;
}
```

There are instances where such conditional compilation can be useful, but this type of code should be used sparingly.

The `defined()` preprocessor operator can be used with `#if`, as in:

```c
#if !defined(LEVEL)
  /* statements */
#endif
```

The `#if` and `if` statement are not interchangeable. The `#if` is evaluated using data available to the preprocessor, which then sends only the true branch for compilation.

An `if` statement uses data provided at runtime with the possibility of branching to any `else` clause.

**Task:**  
Fill in the blanks to include the `printf` statement if the `LEVEL` macro is not defined.

```c
#if !defined(LEVEL)
  printf("hello");
#endif
```
