# 16. The This Keyword

## This 

Every object in C++ has access to its own address through an important pointer called the `this` pointer. Inside a member function, `this` may be used to refer to the invoking object.

Let's create a sample class:

```cpp
class MyClass {
 public:
  MyClass(int a) : var(a)
  { }
 private:
  int var;
};
```

Friend functions do not have a `this` pointer because friends are not members of a class.

### Translate Course

Drag and drop from the options below to declare a `Hannah` class, with a constructor taking one integer parameter, a function named `printInfo()`, and a private integer data member.

```cpp
class Hannah {
:
Hannah(int);
void printInfo();
private:
h;
};
```

## This 

The `printInfo()` method offers three alternatives for printing the member variable of the class:

```cpp
class MyClass {
 public:
  MyClass(int a) : var(a)
  { }
  void printInfo() {
   cout << var << endl;
   cout << this->var << endl;
   cout << (*this).var << endl; 
  }
 private:
  int var;
};
```

All three alternatives will produce the same result. `this` is a pointer to the object, so the arrow selection operator is used to select the member variable.

### For a member named `mem`, select the two correct ways to print out a class member.

Select all correct answers.

## This 

To see the result, we can create an object of our class and call the member function:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class MyClass {
    public:
        MyClass(int a) : var(a)
        { }
        void printInfo() {
            cout << var << endl;
            cout << this->var << endl;
            cout << (*this).var << endl; 
        }
    private:
        int var;
};

int main() {
    MyClass obj(42);
    obj.printInfo();
}
```

All three ways to access the member variable work. Note that only member functions have a `this` pointer.

### Translate Course

Type in the keyword name to store the address of the current object.

```
->
```

## This 

You may be wondering why it's necessary to use the `this` keyword when you have the option of directly specifying the variable. The `this` keyword has an important role in operator overloading, which will be covered in the following lesson.

Tap Continue to learn more!

For a class `MyClass`, with one private member named `mem`, fill in the blanks to print out its value in the `printValue()` function using the `this` keyword.

```cpp
void MyClass::printValue() {
 cout << this->mem;
}
```
