# Resources to Prepare for a System Design Interview

Get familiar with essential resources and guidelines to prepare for the System Design interview.

## We'll cover the following:
- This course
- Technical blogs/System Design interview articles
- System Design interview guides
- System Design interview technical insights
- Ask why a system works
- Mock interviews

Substantial preparation is necessary to increase your odds of getting the job you're applying for. Depending on a candidate’s seniority and proficiency, different candidates need different preparation times. For an average candidate, three to four months might be required to prepare for a System Design interview.

## This Course
This course helps readers learn or brush up on their system design skills. We’ve carefully curated some traditional and fresh design problems to cover substantial depth and breadth in system design. The following activities can expedite preparation and add variety and depth to your knowledge.

## Technical Blogs/System Design Interview Articles
Many companies regularly publish the technical details of their significant work in the form of technical blogs.

### Question: 
Why are companies eager to share the technical details of their work?  
**Answer**:  
There’s a fine line between what a company holds back due to a competitive edge and what it makes public. We can study these blogs to gain insight into the company’s challenges or problems and how they made changes to cope with them. Staying informed about these innovations is crucial, especially for job applicants.

Some important technical blogs include:
- **Engineering at Meta**
- **Meta Research**
- **AWS Architecture Blog**
- **Amazon Science Blog**
- **Netflix TechBlog**
- **Google Research**
- **Uber Engineering Blog**
- **Databricks Blog**
- **Pinterest Engineering**
- **BlackRock Engineering**
- **Lyft Engineering**
- **Salesforce Engineering**

We at Educative share technical knowledge with our learners. Our repository comprises interview prep guides, FAANG-specific insights, and in-depth technical blogs, including FAANG-specific System Design interview articles on companies like Google, Microsoft, Netflix, Amazon, and Meta.

### A few other useful guides and articles:
- **A beginner’s guide to System Design Interviews at FAANG/MAANG**
- **System Design interview guide: Tips from an industry expert**
- **The Complete Guide to System Design in 2024**
- **Simplify System Design interviews with the RESHADED approach**

## System Design Interview Technical Insights
- **25 Essential System Design Interview Questions in 2024**
- **A complete guide to System Design caching**
- **Throughput loss due to high fan-in in System Design**
- **Understanding the Causal Consistency Model**
- **Understanding the Sequential Consistency Model**
- **Amazon System Design case study: How Amazon scales for Prime Day**

It’s important to approach non-peer-reviewed material critically. Use technical acumen to decide if it makes sense. If not, it could be a great opportunity to discuss the issue with peers.

**Note**: You can explore Educative’s blogs for more technical articles that help ace System Design interviews.

## Ask Why a System Works
By asking the right questions, candidates can think through complex and ambiguous situations.

- Learn how popular applications work at a high level (e.g., Instagram, Twitter).
- Understand why one component was used instead of another (e.g., Firebase vs. SQL).
- Build serious side projects. Start simple, then improve and refine the project.
- Build a system from scratch to get familiar with the processes and details of its construction.
- Clone a popular application without tutorials to understand the architecture.

## The Right Direction
System Design involves high-level components; focus less on mechanics and more on trade-offs.

- Instead of focusing on **Room** vs **raw SQLite**, discuss whether to use **MySQL** vs **NoSQL**. This helps pinpoint the trade-offs between the two.
- Start with high-level concepts; low-level details will come up naturally.

## Mock Interviews
Mock interviews are a great way to prepare for System Design interviews. They involve pairing with a friend to ask questions. If you can’t pair up, you can record yourself playing both the interviewer and interviewee. Critique your performance or ask a knowledgeable friend for feedback.

**Note**: Gaining real interview experience with tech companies can help refine your approach. If you don’t have the opportunity, practice with personalized System Design mock interviewers for a similar experience.