# 1.Getting started with C++

Welcome to C++!
C++ is one of the most popular programming languages.

It is used to build games, operating systems, browsers, and much more!

The biggest advantage of C++ is its scalability and control over how it uses resources.

In this course you will learn how to create real programs in C++, perform various operations, and much more!

Coding
Humans use computer programs to communicate with machines. Without computer programs, we wouldn't have smartphones, websites, or even exploration in outer space.

img-component
Learning some coding can help you innovate and create different solutions to problems, giving you a competitive edge in this technology-driven world. 

Everyone can learn to code with Sololearn.

Output
Most computer programs are designed to produce outputs. Here are some examples:

- "You've got a new message" notifications

- "Game Over" displayed on the screen when playing video games

- Your account balance when checking your online banking app.

The simplest output consists of displaying a message on the screen.

Output
Coders use outputs all the time to check that the computer is following the given instructions and fix problems with code.

The following line of code displays "Welcome to C++" on the screen as an output:

cout << "Welcome to C++";


Translate course
Drag and drop to write a line of code that outputs "New message".

cout <<
;

The Code Playground
Ready to write, run and test real code?

Open the Code Playground 👇. Then hit "run" to see the output on the screen.

#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    cout << "Welcome to the Code Playground!";
}

Welcome to the Code Playground!
You'll see other lines of code when you open the Code Playground. They are needed for the code to run without errors. You will learn everything about these lines in the upcoming lessons.


Translate course
Drag and drop to complete a line of code that outputs "You win!".

<< "You win!";


Translate course
The cout command needs to be followed by <<.

Drag and drop to complete a line of code that outputs "Great progress".

cout
"Great progress";


Translate course
Lesson Takeaways
Awesome! You completed your first lesson 🚀. Remember the following important points:

💡 You can write code that generates outputs with the cout command

💡 The cout instruction needs to be followed by <<

What's next?
In the next lesson, you will create code with different types of data.