# Statistics

Data Science uses various techniques and methods to extract knowledge and insights from data.
Let's dive into some basics of statistics first. These concepts form the main building blocks of data analysis.

As an example dataset, let's consider the prices of a group of products:

```py
[18, 24, 67, 55, 42, 14, 19, 26, 33]
```
The given dataset includes prices of 9 products.

The mean is the average value of the dataset. We can calculate it by adding all prices together and dividing by the number of products: mean = 298/9 = 33.1

What is the mean of the following values?

[2, 4, 6, 8]

5
6
4

## Median
Another useful concept is median: the middle value of an ordered dataset.
To calculate the median for our prices dataset, let's first order it in ascending order:

```py
[14, 18, 19, 24, 26, 33, 42, 55, 67]
```


The median is 26, as that's the middle value.
If our dataset had an even number of values, we would take the two values in the middle and calculate their average value.
The median is generally more useful than the mean. This is because the mean can vary widely due to one value that is a lot larger or smaller than the others.

The mean and the median are called
Measures of Central Tendency, as they describe where the center of our data is.

Translate course
What is the median of the following values?

[2, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9]

3
5
4


## PRACTICE EXERCISE
Number of Vaccinations
We have a report on the number of flu vaccinations in a class of 20 people.

It has the following numbers:
never: 5
once: 8
twice: 4
3 times: 3

What is the mean number of times those people have been vaccinated?
Output the result using the print() statement.

Hint: Think about the data this way: it contains 20 values, each representing the number of vaccinations the corresponding person had.


```py
vac_nums = [0,0,0,0,0,
            1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,
            2,2,2,2,
            3,3,3
            ]

```