## Standard Deviation
The Standard Deviation is a measure of how spread out our data is.
To calculate it, we first need to calculate a value called Variance: which is the average of the squared differences from the mean.
So, for our prices data:

```py
[14, 18, 19, 24, 26, 33, 42, 55, 67]
```

the mean is 33.1. To calculate the variance, we take the difference between each value and the mean, square it, and then average the result: Variance = 292.5

Now we take the square root of the Variance, to get the Standard Deviation: std = 17.1

Now, we can check which ages are within one standard deviation (17.1) from the mean (33.1) - from (33.1-17.1) to (33.1+17.1):

```py
[14, 18, 19, 24, 26, 33, 42, 55, 67]
```
As you can see, 6 values out of 9 are within that range.

A low standard deviation indicates that the values tend to be close to the mean of the set, while a high standard deviation indicates that the values are spread out over a wider range.

True or False: A high standard deviation value shows that the values in our dataset are close to the mean.

False -- answer
True


## Statistics
We have learned how to calculate the main summary statistics for a data set:
mean: the average of the values.
median: the middle value.
standard deviation: the measure of spread.

These statistics provide information about your data set and help you understand where your data values are and how they are distributed.

Python provides libraries that calculate the summary statistics for you. We will learn about them in later lessons.

What would be the standard deviation for a dataset containing the same value? (for example: [2, 2, 2, 2])

1
0
infinity


## PRACTICE EXERCISE
Number of Vaccinations
Using the same vaccinations dataset, which includes the number of times people got the flu vaccine.
The dataset contains the following numbers:
never: 5
once: 8
twice: 4
3 times: 3

Calculate and output the variance.
We will soon learn about easier ways to calculate the variance and other summary statistics using Python. For now, use Python code to calculate the result using the corresponding equation.

Hint: The variance is the average of the squared differences from the mean.

```py
vac_nums = [0,0,0,0,0,
            1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,
            2,2,2,2,
            3,3,3
            ]
#your code goes here
```