# 1. Functions

## What are Functions?
A function is a block of code designed to perform a particular task.

For example, your program can have functions like `login()`, `logout()`, `convert()`, `withdraw()`, etc.

The purpose of a function is to create it once and call it multiple times when needed to perform particular tasks.

## Defining Functions
You can define your own functions to perform specific tasks. Here is an example:

```cpp
void hello() {
  cout << "Hello!" << endl;
  cout << "I am a sample function";
}
```

The code above declares a function called `hello()`, which outputs two lines of text.

- The name of the function is followed by parentheses `()`.
- The statements of the function are inside curly braces `{}`.

### Breakdown:
- `void` means that this function does not return a value.
- `hello` is the name of the function.

Here’s an exercise for defining a function called `demo` that does not return any value and outputs `"This is a demo"`:

```cpp
void demo() {
  cout << "This is a demo";
}
```

## Calling Functions
Once we have defined our function, we can use it in our program by **calling** it.

To call a function, type its name followed by a set of parentheses `()`.

For example, let’s call the `hello()` function in `main()`:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void hello() {
    cout << "Hello!" << endl;
    cout << "I am a sample function";
}

int main() {
    hello();
}
```

### Exercise:
Fill in the blanks to call the `demo()` function in `main()`:

```cpp
int main() {
    demo();
}
```

## Multiple Function Calls
You can call a function as many times as necessary.

For example:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void hello() {
    cout << "Hello!" << endl;
    cout << "I am a sample function" << endl;
}

int main() {
    hello();
    hello();
    hello();
}
```

It's important to **declare** the function before calling it. If the function declaration comes after `main()`, you would get an error.

### Exercise:
Fill in the blanks to define a function called `drive()` and call it in `main()` two times:

```cpp
void drive() {
    cout << "Whoom!" << endl;
}

int main() {
    drive();
    drive();
}
```

## Lesson Takeaways
- Functions are **reusable**; we define them once and can call them multiple times.
- To call a function, use its name followed by parentheses `()`.
- The `void` keyword means that the function does not return a value.

We will learn about **return values** in the next lessons, so stay tuned!

