Here's the fixed and formatted Markdown for the lesson on function parameters:

# 2. Function Parameters

## Function Parameters

Functions can have parameters, which they can use in their code. 

The parameters are defined in the parentheses and can be used like variables in the function.

For example, let's add a string `name` parameter to our `hello` function:

```cpp
void hello(string name) {
  cout << "Hello, " << name << endl;
}
```

The function above takes a string called `name` as its parameter, which is used in the function's output.

## Function Parameters

Now, when calling the function, we need to pass it a value for the `name` parameter inside the parentheses:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void hello(string name) {
    cout << "Hello, " << name << endl;
}

int main() {
    hello("James");
    hello("Amy");
}
```

This way, we can call our function with different parameters and generate different results based on them.

The values passed as parameters when calling the function are called arguments.

### Fill in the blanks to create a function called `square`, which takes an integer as its parameter and outputs its square. Call the function for the argument value `32`.

```cpp
void square(int x) {
  cout << x*x << endl;
}

int main() {
    square(32);
}
```

## Multiple Parameters

Functions can take multiple parameters. For that, we simply need to separate them using commas, for example:

```cpp
void sum(int x, int y) {
  cout << x + y << endl;
}
```

Now, our `sum()` function takes two integer parameters. Note that we need to define the data type and name for each parameter.

### Fill in the blanks to create a function called `max`, that takes two `double` parameters and outputs the largest one.

```cpp
void max(double a, double b) {
  if (a > b) {
    cout << a;
  } else {
    cout << b;
  }
}
```

## Function Parameters

Function parameters allow you to use the same function for different values, making it reusable.

For example, we can take user input and pass it as a function argument:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void square(int x) {
    cout << x*x << endl;
}

int main() {
    int a;
    cin >> a;
    square(a);
}
```

The values that we pass to a function for its parameters are called:

- arguments

## Lesson Takeaways

Function parameters are really helpful and allow you to use the same function for different values!

Here is a summary:

- You can define parameters in the parentheses, by providing the data type and a name.
- Multiple parameters need to be separated by commas.
- The parameters are available in the function as variables of the given names.
- When calling a function, you need to provide its parameters in the same order, as defined, separated by commas.

You will learn how to return values in the next lesson.
