# 3. Returning From Functions

## Return Values
Functions we have seen so far output their results. However, in some cases, we may not need to output the result immediately. Instead, we might want to assign it to a variable and work with it within our program. For such scenarios, the function should **return** the result value instead of outputting it.

## The Return Type
Here’s a look at a function from previous examples:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void sum(int x, int y) {
    cout << x + y << endl;
}

int main() {
    sum(21, 56);
}
```

This function takes two parameters and outputs their sum. The keyword **void** in the function definition specifies that the function does not return any value.

### Quiz: 
Which of the following keywords specifies that a function does not return any value?
- `()`
- `cout`
- `main`
- **void**

## Changing the Return Type
Now, let’s modify the function and specify the return type as an **int**:

```cpp
int sum(int x, int y) {
    // function body
}
```

This means our `sum` function will now return an integer value.

### Quiz:
What is the return type of the following function?

```cpp
double demo(string a, int z);
```

- `void`
- `int`
- **double**
- `string`

## Returning a Value
We can return a result from a function using the **return** keyword:

```cpp
int sum(int x, int y) {
    return (x + y);
}
```

The `return` keyword terminates the function’s execution. Any statements written after the `return` statement will not be executed.

## Using the Returned Value
Once we have a function that returns a value, we can call it and assign the result to a variable in our code:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int sum(int x, int y) {
    return (x + y);
}

int main() {
    int result;
    result = sum(21, 56);
    cout << result;
}
```

Returning values is useful when you don't want to output the result directly but need to use it within your code. For example, a bank account's `withdraw()` function could return the remaining balance of the account.

## Exercise: Function Check

Drag and drop to create a function called `check` that takes one integer as its parameter. It returns **true** if the integer is greater than 18, and **false** otherwise.

```cpp
bool check(int x) {
    if(x > 18) {
        return true;
    } else {
        return false;
    }
}
```

## Lesson Takeaways
- Use the **return** keyword to return a value from your function.
- The function’s return type must be specified before its name.
- The **void** return type means the function does not return any value.
- The returned value can be assigned to a variable when calling the function.

In the next lesson, we’ll learn about **function overloading**—it’s going to be fun!