# 4. Overloading Functions

## Overloading Functions

Let's look at one of our example functions:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void sum(int x, int y) {
    cout << x + y << endl;
}

int main() {
    sum(42, 31);
}
```

This function takes two integers as parameters and outputs their sum.

What if we want the function to work for other data types, such as doubles? Let's learn how to make that happen.

### Overloading Functions
C++ allows you to define multiple functions with the same name but different parameter data types.

Here’s our `sum` function using double parameters:

```cpp
void sum(double x, double y) {
    cout << x + y << endl;
}
```

We used the same function name but changed the parameter data types. This is called **function overloading**.

### How It Works
When we call the function, the correct version will be executed based on the type of the arguments provided. Here's an example:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void sum(int x, int y) {
    cout << x + y << endl;
}

void sum(double x, double y) {
    cout << x + y << endl;
}

int main() {
    sum(42, 31);     // Calls the int version
    sum(3.14, 5.66); // Calls the double version
}
```

The correct function corresponding to the given parameters will be called.

### Quiz: 
What is the output of the following code?

```cpp
void demo(int x) {
    cout << x / 2;
}

void demo(double s) {
    cout << s - 2;
}

int main() {
    demo(8);
}
```

- `8`
- `6`
- **4**

### Overloading Restrictions
You **cannot** overload functions that differ only by return type. The following example will result in an error:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int demo(int x) {
    return x;
}

double demo(int x) {
    return x / 2.0;
}

int main() {
    demo(8);
}
```

## Default Arguments
Another useful feature when working with functions is **default arguments**.

When defining a function, you can specify a default value for one or more parameters. If a corresponding argument is missing when the function is called, the default value will be used.

For example:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int area(int x, int y = 1) {
    return x * y;
}

int main() {
    cout << area(8, 5) << endl;  // Outputs 40
    cout << area(6) << endl;     // Uses default y = 1, Outputs 6
}
```

As you can see, we assigned a default value to the `y` parameter. This allows us to call the function with or without that parameter.

## Exercise
Fill in the missing code to define a function with two parameters: a string and an integer. The integer parameter should have a default value of 18. The function does not return any value.

```cpp
void check(string name, int age = 18) {
    // some code
}
```

## Lesson Takeaways
- **Function Overloading** allows you to use the same function name with different parameter data types.
- **Default Arguments** allow you to specify default values for the parameters by assigning them values directly in the function definition.

Congratulations! This was the final lesson of the course! You've now learned how to overload functions and use default arguments in C++.