# 1. Arrays

## What are Arrays?
Imagine working on a shopping app. Your program will need to store and work with multiple products and their prices.

Instead of creating separate variables for each price, we can use an **array** to store all values! 

An array stores multiple values in a single variable.

## Declaring Arrays
An array needs to be declared like a variable, specifying the type of the items it will hold. For example:

```cpp
double prices[5];
```

Here, the name of the array is `prices`, and it is created to hold 5 `double` values.

**Exercise:** Drag & drop to declare an array called `users` of type `string`, which will hold 8 items.

```cpp
string users[8];
```

## Accessing Array Items
After declaring the array, we can access the items using their **position**, also called the **index**.

For example, let’s set the item at index 3 to the value `29.99`:

```cpp
prices[3] = 29.99;
```

The index is specified in square brackets `[]`, next to the array name.

### Understanding Array Indexing
The item with index 3 is actually the **4th item** of the array. This is because array indexes start from **0**, meaning that the first element's index is 0 rather than 1.

For example, let’s set the first item’s value:

```cpp
prices[0] = 9.5;
```

The last item of an array with 8 elements will have the index **7**. The second item of an array will have the index **1**.

## Accessing and Printing Array Values
Similarly, we can access the value of an item using its index. Here's an example:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    double prices[8];
    prices[3] = 29.99;
    
    cout << prices[3];
}
```

**What will this output?** The answer is `29.99`.

Here’s another example:

```cpp
int x[3];
x[0] = 1;
x[1] = 3;
x[2] = 5;
cout << x[0] + x[2];
```

The output of this code will be `6` because `1 + 5 = 6`.

## Initializing Arrays with Values
If you already know the values to store in the array, you can initialize them in one step. For example:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    double prices[] = {5.99, 3.2, 9.99, 29.99};

    cout << prices[2];
}
```

In the code above, the array `prices` is initialized with 4 items, and it automatically determines the size based on the values provided. The output will be `9.99`.

### Array Syntax Shortcuts
When creating an array using the above syntax, you can omit specifying the size in the square brackets because the size is set based on the number of values provided.

**Exercise:** Fill in the blanks to create an array of strings, then output the 2nd item:

```cpp
string arr[] = {"A", "B", "C", "D"};
cout << arr[1];
```

## Lesson Takeaways
Awesome! Here are some key points about arrays:

- Arrays allow you to store multiple values in a single variable.
- When creating an array, you need to provide the type of the items and the size of the array, like this:

    ```cpp
    int numbers[15];
    ```

- Array items are accessed using their indexes, placed in square brackets. The first item has the index `0`.
- You can also create an array with values using this syntax:

    ```cpp
    int numbers[] = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
    ```

In the next lesson, we will learn how to **loop over** the values of an array and make calculations.
