# 3. Multidimensional Arrays

## Introduction to Multidimensional Arrays
An array can have multiple dimensions (or indices) to represent a grid. 

For example, imagine a movie theater program that stores seats, which have a row and column number, or a game board/map, where each square has 2 coordinates. The arrays in these examples would have 2 dimensions.

## Declaring Multidimensional Arrays
To create multidimensional arrays, place each array within its own set of square brackets:

```cpp
int seats[2][3] = {{1, 2, 3}, {4, 5, 6}};
```

The array has two dimensions: 2 rows and 3 columns.

## Accessing Elements in Multidimensional Arrays
The elements are accessed by using the row index and column index of the array. 

For example, let's output the 3rd item of the 2nd array:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    int seats[2][3] = {{1, 2, 3}, {4, 5, 6}};

    cout << seats[1][2];
}
```

Here, the first index accesses the 2nd array (row), while the second index accesses the 3rd item (column) in it.

### Exercise:
What is the output of this code?

```cpp
int x[3][2] = {{2, 4}, {6, 8}, {1, 2}};
cout << x[2][0];
```

## Formatting for Readability
Indices for two-dimensional arrays are also called **row** and **column** indices. 

We can format the code to make it easier to read:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    int seats[2][3] = {
        {1, 2, 3}, 
        {4, 5, 6}
    };

    cout << seats[1][2];
}
```

Each row is an item, which is an array. To access a value, we provide the row index followed by the column index.

### Exercise:
Fill in the missing symbols to create a valid two-dimensional array, then output the 2nd item of the 1st array:

```cpp
int arr[3][2] = {{1, 2}, {3, 4}, {5, 6}};
cout << arr[0][1];
```

## Looping Over Multidimensional Arrays
We can loop over a two-dimensional array using **nested for loops**:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    int seats[2][3] = {
        {1, 2, 3}, 
        {4, 5, 6}
    };

    for(int i = 0; i < 2; i++) {
        for(int j = 0; j < 3; j++) {
            cout << seats[i][j] << endl;
        }
    }
}
```

The first loop iterates over the rows, and the second one iterates over the items in each row.

### Quiz:
How many items does the array `nums[4][5]` store?

- 15
- 12
- 20  ✅
- 9

## Lesson Takeaways
- **Multidimensional arrays** are arrays that contain other arrays.
- The number of square brackets corresponds to the dimension of the array (e.g., `[][]` denotes a 2-dimensional array).
- To access the items of a multidimensional array, specify the row index in the first square brackets and the column index in the second.
